
 Deeno in Rainbowland
 
Dragons are not known to be creatures particularly fussy about their appearance. But Deeno was. This little dragon who lived in Rainbowland,  liked to wear a bow; not the kind that gentlemen tie under their necks but a large pink bow on top of his head. He did not quite know why he did so but was happy not to spend too much time thinking about it. 
 
 
Deeno was also into music. His favourite workout song was “I am Deeno the dragon” which he sang to a rap beat.
 
 
I'm Deeno the dragon.
I'm big and tall. 
 I'm mean and ugly.
 So don't mess with me at all!
 
I can blow fire
And climb the tallest wall.
I love my daily workouts,
And I love  to play with .....
 
Deeno scratched his head.  Somehow he got stumped when he came to the last line of his song. He had no idea how his song was supposed to end. He had always lived alone and wasn't sure what "play with" meant but the song had just popped into his head one fine day and he had been singing it ever since.
 
But he  knew what " workout" meant. And never for a day had he missed his daily workout. And in case you are wondering what his workout was, well, he lived in an area of steep hills. He would run up the hill as fast as he could, singing his song. Then he would run down the other side singing the song again.  He had a grand time doing this and often did this routine several times a day without getting tired.
 
But why was he alone? What about his neighbours you say?
 
Well Rainbowland is a place that started where the rainbow started and ended where it ended. So it was a huge place where there was room for everybody. Rainbowland was full of dreamers who were dreaming wonderful dreams and when they could not let go of their dreams, they ended up here.  Some daydreamers also entered Rainbowland for a short time.  That is why people say "she is in another world" when someone is daydreaming. 
Dreamers sometimes create dreams that are so bright, and real that it is not like a dream at all. 
The dream glistens and shines with many colours.  This colourful call of the dream attracts a smoky white ship from Rainbowland.  Chugging along, it reaches the doorstep of the dreamer.  Only the dreamer sees the ship, and that too, in his dreams.  The dreamer, still dreaming, steps into the ship.  The dreamer has not yet decided whether he wants to live in Rainbowland forever or not . So he leaves his body behind just in case he wants to return.  And off he goes.  The ship sails for 6 days and 6 nights and finally reaches Rainbowland. And what a beautiful place it is! 
 
People in Rainblowland can do wonderful things. 
They can hang upside down, fly, sink deep into the ground or enter the skies.  If they want they can break into many pieces and then come together again.  Why would they want to break into many pieces you say ?  Well if they break into 10 pieces and each piece falls from the sky saying "wheeee" with delight, then it becomes 10 times the fun!
 
Also a piece of them could  enter another person and then they would be able to feel and think exactly the same way as the other person feels and thinks. 
So if you were to be in rainbowland and were to be angry with someone for the way he had behaved with you, then you could let a piece of you enter that person; and then you would feel exactly what that person is feeling.
If  you can share a feeling with someone, you cannot be angry with that person.
So, no one ever got angry in Rainbowland. And no one ever had a fight.
 
That is how wonderful Rainblowland was. 
 
 
After another six days in Rainbowland, the dreamer chooses whether to return or to stay.  If the dreamer chooses to return he or she gets on the ship again.  This time, instead of taking six days and six nights, the ship instantly takes the dreamer back. This is because it is much harder to get to Rainbowland than it is to leave it. The dreamer climbs back into his or her body and wakes up the next day feeling wonderful. Six days in Rainbowland is just one night in the real world.
There are many, who are so much in love with their dreams that they can't bear to leave Rainbowland.. They stay on forever in Rainbowland. 
 
 
Deeno did not know how he got there. In reality, he was a true rainbow creature- creatures that have always been a part of Rainbowland. True rainbow creatures were few-- pink elephants, the unipug (a pug with a single horn coming out of its forehead) and diamond sea slugs, all magical creatures in their own right. Although, he was the only dragon in Rainbowland, young Deeno never quite realized this and thus it never really bothered him. But one day two unipugs that were play fighting with each other on a beautiful tower-shaped cloud drifted away from their home and floated just above the area where Deeno lived. At first Deeno was fascinated with the barking and fighting of the unipugs. Then Deeno wanted to join in with them and tried to jump on to their tower cloud. However, the cloud was too small to hold him and he fell down to a cloud below and watched sadly as they drifted away. From then on he longed to have a companion to play with. Deeno fretted and fretted. He no longer ran up the mountain singing “I am Deeno the dragon”. 
 
 
 
Now at around the same time, on earth, where you and I live, there was a blue ball who was not very happy. This ball whose name was just “ball” wanted to be really bright blue and to be a real ball. Right now he felt a little square.  The truth was that he wasn’t completely round.  His friends would sometimes make fun of the fact that he was the only square ball among them. He was also not bright blue as the other balls very, but only a dull blue. He wanted to be like the other balls. He longed to live a life where he could be a BLUE BALL in every sense of the word. One day he fell asleep and while asleep he dreamt that he was a REAL BRIGHT BLUE BALL. He realised he was dreaming so he wished and wished that his dream would become reality and poof! He wished so hard that Rainbowland opened up to him and off he went for 6 days and 6 nights until he fell “bam” right on top of sad Deeno’s head. “Ouch!” yelled Deeno, “my head!”
Deeno adjusted his pink bow that had fallen off and looked surprised at the brilliant round blue ball next to him.
 

“What are you?”
The blue ball said happily, “ I am BLUE” and “I am a BALL. I am finally a BRIGHT BLUE BALL.”
 
“Well OK” said Deeno. 
  "But where am I?"  the Blue Ball wanted to know, "What is this place ?" 
Deeno looked around and said, a bit surprised, "This is Rainbowland, of course"  "What is Rainbowland?" the blue ball asked, now a little worried.  He noticed for the first time that he was talking to a rather large dragon who was smiling at him and wearing a pink bow on its head. 
"Rainbowland is where dreamers come if they dream hard enough"  Just then a bunch of red water lilies floating amongst bright green leaves and even brighter  blue water, passed by. It had a wisp of pink cloud floating over it,
"What is that?" cried Blue Ball."
"That is a famous painter,"
 "Oh? But it looks like a painting"
 "That painter loved to paint ponds and lilies and became so lost in his paintings that when he entered Rainbowland he became his own painting."
"Is he a dreamer too?" Blue Ball wanted to know.
Deeno said, "Well... that is a dreamer with a difference,"  and he explained that some people like singers and painters did not enter Rainbowland through their dreams but through their songs and paintings.
 
Just then an exquisite piece of musical note floated by. Blue Ball had never heard anything so melodious in its life.
  "Let me guess... that music is actually a musician who loved music so much he became music!" That's right said Deeno and  both sat down and watched as more paintings floated by. 
Some of the canvases grew hazy and the paintings looked so real that Ball could not tell if it was a painting or real.  And the paintings kept changing.  Deeno said this was changed with the mood of the painter.  Then one painting floated by, and this one Ball could tell was a painting and not real.  Not because it wasn't beautiful but because it was modern art, and the squiggles and crooked faces could not possibly be real.  Dazzling paintings shifted from one into another and the music whistled through the green leaves of the trees of Rainbowland, sometimes accompanied by the soft tunes of singers who had now become songs floating in the breeze. 
 
"I love Rainbowland" Ball said.
Then an idea struck Deeno and he perked up a bit as he asked the Ball, “Do you want to play?” “Yes” said the Blue Ball. So off they ran and Deeno showed the ball his great game.   Ball agreed to roll down with Deeno and down the mountain they went singing Deeno's rap song.  But now Ball was round and so he started to go really fast, so fast that he was scared.  Soon it left Deeno behind.  "Ouch" went Ball as it went over some nettles. 
 
 "Excuse us!!" cried the nettles, upset at Ball's rudeness.  But Ball just couldn't stop.
On and on Ball went.  It saw a pretty pink piglet  in its way.  Ball wanted to avoid her but he couldn't. 
Bump!  "Oink!" went the surprised piglet turning cartwheels without wanting to.  She went round and round for some distance with  Ball and then stopped as she crashed into a bush, oinking in distress. 
 
 "Sorry!" cried Ball but on and on he went.  He fell down another bump in the hill and this time, much to his alarm, he saw a pond.  "Oh no!" said Ball but he couldn't stop.  He bumped against a rock, flew up and with a grand dive, fell into the pond and went all the way to the bottom where a lesson was being taught to a school of very serious fish.  Needless to say the fish did not appreciate the interruption and pushed Ball away with their noses . 
 
Ball could float in water because. like other balls, it was full of air.Slowly, it floated to the top and rolled ashore.
And then it got the shock of its life-- it was a dull blue again! 
And because of the bumps it had, Ball was square again. 
Ball was a sad Ball.  It rolled to a tree and sat under it till Deeno came to see what the matter was.
And soon as he saw Ball he knew why his friend was so sad.
Deeno sat down  next to Ball. They were both silent for a long time, and then Deeno spoke, "You know now that you are square, you probably wouldn't roll so fast and that is a good thing."
"How come?"
"Well, I will be able to keep up with you now". 
Ball thought about it for a while and realised Deeno was right. It was much more fun doing things with a friend.
 
"Do you like my colour?" Ball asked suddenly.
 
 "Yes, of course I do!"  replied Deeno. "Before you were so bright, I had to wear sunglasses.  Now I can actually look at you". 
 
Ball was happy.
 
"I am not blue... I am not round....And I feel good,"   sang Ball bouncing up and down as best as it could with its square shape. And then calling out to Deeno, cried, "Let us play again!"
Deeno sang his incomplete song for his new friend:
 
"I'm Deeno the dragon.
I'm big and tall. 
 So don't mess with me at all!
 
I can blow fire,
And climb the tallest wall.
I love my daily workouts,
And I love  to play with  ....
 
"Sort of Blue Ball"! cried Blue Ball! 
 
 "Yes of course! Why didn't I think of it myself?" cried Deeno and repeated the last line of the poem, "And I love 
to play with Blue Ball"
 
 "That's a lovely song," said Blue Ball but now you must sing a new song about both of us.
Deeno  and Ball went up the mountain singing:
  
Deeno the dragon...
And Sort of Blue Ball!  (added Ball)
A really mean and ugly dragon...
And Sort of Blue Ball (added Ball)
Are running UP the mountain.
 
Deeno can blow fire
And Deeno's really tall.
Deeno can easily climb a mountain
Or the tallest wall!
 
Ball is not a bright blue,
 And a little square,
But Deeno doesn't mind it,
And Ball doesn't care!
 
Ball likes to roll slowly,
 And now he'll never  fall (said Deeno)
So don't mess with Deeno.....
And Sort of Blue Ball! (added Ball)
 
Then they ran down the mountain singing happily:
 
Deeno the dragon
And Sort of Blue Ball!
A really mean and ugly dragon
And, Sort of Blue Ball,
Are running DOWN the mountain.
 
Deeno can blow fire
And Deeno's really tall.
Deeno can easily climb a mountain
Or the tallest wall!
 
Ball is not a bright blue,
 And a little square,
But Deeno doesn't mind it,
And Ball doesn't care!
 
Ball likes to roll slowly,
For now he'll never  fall,
So don't mess with Deeno.....
And Sort of Blue Ball!
 
 
And they played happily for a long long time. And Deeno was never alone again
